realtime: Broadcast Changes documentation (#31222)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/realtime/broadcast.mdx

  Unsupported in Python yet.
  </TabPanel>
</Tabs>

> ## Trigger broadcast messages from your database

Author: changed the beginning of the "Usage": 

```
Let's explore how to implement Realtime Broadcast to send messages between clients using Supabase Realtime using either WebSockets, REST API or triggers from your database.
```

We are using partitioned tables per day which allows us to delete your previous images in a performant way by dropping the physical tables of this partitioned table. Currently we are dropping tables older than 3 days old.

The broadcast itself uses the same approach as our [Broadcast](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/realtime/broadcast?queryGroups=language&language=js) feature which utilizes WebSockets to send JSON packages. We've also set [Realtime Authorization](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/realtime/authorization?queryGroups=language&language=dart)  as a requirement from the start to ensure connected users comply to your Authorization rules and avoid information leakage.

To help you with this we provide you two functions:

- `realtime.send` that will do the insert into `realtime.messages`
- `realtime.broadcast_changes` that will use `realtime.send` but help you setup the fields required to emit changes to your clients easily.

### Broadcasting a message from your database

> We wanted to provide you as much flexibility as possible so we have `realtime.send` that will enable you to broadcast messages from your database without a specific format:

Reviewer: The `realtime.send` function provides the most flexibility by allowing you to broadcast messages from your database without a specific format. This allows you to use database broadcast for messages that aren't necessarily tied to the shape of a Postgres row change.

```sql
SELECT realtime.send (
	to_jsonb ('{}'::text), -- JSONB Payload
	'event', -- Event name
	'topic', -- Topic
	FALSE -- Public / Private flag
);
```

> This allows you to trigger other types of messages that could be useful for other user cases.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Broadcast record changes

#### Setup realtime authorization

> As mentioned above we've opted to have Realtime Authorization as a requirement so you will need to setup policies for your topics so your users can listen to messages from topics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Realtime Authorization is required and enabled by default. To allow your users to listen to messages from topics, create a RLS policy:
```

```sql
CREATE POLICY "authenticated can receive broadcasts"
ON "realtime"."messages"
FOR SELECT
TO authenticated

> USING ( true );

Reviewer: Since the order has changed (`send` before `broadcast_changes`), does this need to go higher up? Should maybe be the first item in Usage?

```

> Read more about [Realtime Authorization](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/realtime/authorization?queryGroups=language&language=dart) so you ensure you have the best approach for your goal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Realtime Authorization](/docs/guides/realtime/authorization) docs to learn how to set up more specific policies.
```

> #### Setup trigger function
> 
> Then we need to setup the function that will be used by your trigger and this will allow you to setup every element of the message easily.
> 
> For our example use case we want to have simply a topic with the name `topic:<record id>` to which we're going to broadcast our event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Set up trigger function

First, set up a trigger function that uses `realtime.broadcast_changes` to insert an event whenever it is triggered. The event is set up to include data on the schema, table, operation, and field changes that triggered it.

For our example use case, we want to have a topic with the name `topic:<record id>` to which we're going to broadcast our event.
```

```sql
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION public.your_table_changes() RETURNS trigger AS $$
BEGIN
    PERFORM realtime.broadcast_changes(
	    'topic:' || NEW.id::text,   -- topic
		   TG_OP,                          -- event
		   TG_OP,                          -- operation
		   TG_TABLE_NAME,                  -- table
		   TG_TABLE_SCHEMA,                -- schema
		   NEW,                            -- new record
		   OLD                             -- old record
		);
    RETURN NULL;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;
```

Of note are the Postgres native trigger special variables used:

- `TG_OP` - the operation that triggered the function
- `TG_TABLE_NAME` - the table that caused the trigger
- `TG_TABLE_SCHEMA` - the schema of the table that caused the trigger invocation
- `NEW` - the record after the change
- `OLD` - the record before the change

> You can read more about them in this [guide](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/plpgsql-trigger.html#PLPGSQL-DML-TRIGGER).
> #### Setup trigger
> 
> With the function ready, we can setup the trigger that will happen on each operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read more about them in this [guide](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/plpgsql-trigger.html#PLPGSQL-DML-TRIGGER).

#### Set up trigger

Next, set up a trigger so the function runs whenever your target table has a change.
```

```sql
CREATE TRIGGER broadcast_changes_for_your_table_trigger
AFTER INSERT OR UPDATE OR DELETE ON public.your_table
FOR EACH ROW
EXECUTE FUNCTION your_table_changes ();
```

As you can see, we will be broadcasting all operations so our users will receive events when records are inserted, updated or deleted from `public.your_table` .

#### Listen on client side

Finally we need to listen for the changes in the client side:

```jsx

> const id = '4a8bbe89-f601-4414-bd47-8d0f7ab2a31a'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const gameId = '4a8bbe89-f601-4414-bd47-8d0f7ab2a31a'
```

I'm guessing? Probably less confusing to remove this entirely actually
